.TH OPENSTREETMAP-CGIMAP 1
.SH NAME
openstreetmap-cgimap \- FastCGI version of the OpenStreetMap API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B openstreetmap-cgimap
[OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
A C++ implementation of performance critical parts of the OpenStreetMap API as a FastCGI process.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-daemon
Run the program as a daemon, forking multiple instances
for parallel processing of requests.
.IP
In non-daemon mode, only a single process is active and handles requests.
When the process terminates, it must be restarted externally.
.TP
.BR \-\-instances =\fIINSTANCES\fR
Specifies the number of daemon instances to run. This parameter is ignored in non-daemon mode.
Default value is 5.
.TP
.BR \-\-pidfile =\fIPIDFILE\fR
Write pid to \fIPIDFILE\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-logfile =\fILOGFILE\fR
File to write log messages to.
.TP
.BR \-\-configfile =\fICONFIGFILE\fR
File to read configuration values from.
.TP
.BR \-\-memcache =\fISPEC\fR
Memcache server specification.
.TP
.BR \-\-ratelimit =\fILIMIT\fR
Average number of bytes/s to allow each client.
.TP
.BR \-\-moderator-ratelimit =\fIMODERATOR_LIMIT\fR
Average number of bytes/s to allow each moderator.
.TP
.BR \-\-maxdebt =\fIDEBT\fR
Maximum debt (in Mb) to allow each client before rate limiting.
.TP
.BR \-\-moderator-maxdebt =\fIMODERATOR_DEBT\fR
Maximum debt (in Mb) to allow each moderator before rate limiting.
.TP
.BR \-\-port =\fIPORT\fR
FCGI port number (e.g. 8000) to listen on. This option is for backwards compatibility, please use \-\-socket for new configurations.
.TP
.BR \-\-socket =\fISOCKET\fR
FCGI port number (e.g. :8000) or UNIX socket to listen on.
.IP
To avoid exposing the TCP/IP port worldwide it is recommended
to use 127.0.0.1:8000 instead, or use a UNIX domain socket.
.SS ApiDB backend options
.TP
.BR \-\-dbname =\fIDBNAME\fR
Database name, APIDB database managed by Rails.
.TP
.BR \-\-host =\fIHOST\fR
Database server host.
.TP
.BR \-\-username =\fIUSER\fR
Database user name.
.TP
.BR \-\-password =\fIPASS\fR
Database password.
.TP
.BR \-\-dbport =\fIPORT\fR
Database port number or UNIX socket file name.
.TP
.BR \-\-update\-dbname =\fIUPDATEDBNAME\fR
Database name to use for API write operations, if different from \-\-dbname.
.TP
.BR \-\-update\-host =\fIUPDATEHOST\fR
Database server host to use for API write operations, if different from \-\-host.
.TP
.BR \-\-update\-username =\fIUPDATEUSER\fR
Database user name to use for API write operations, if different from \-\-username.
.TP
.BR \-\-update\-password =\fIUPDATEPASS\fR
Database password to use for API write operations, if different from \-\-password.
.TP
.BR \-\-update\-dbport =\fIUPDATEPORT\fR
Database port number or UNIX socket file name to use for API write operations, if different from \-\-dbport.
.LP
\fB--update-*\fR parameters can be used to set up a read-only mirror scenario:
\fB--update-*\fR config options point to the active database,
while the other database parameters point to the read-only mirror.
.SS ADVANCED SETTINGS
.TP
.BR \-\-disable-api-write
Disables all database write operations. Useful for database maintenance, or during fallover to a read-only mirror.
.TP
.BR \-\-bbox-size-limit-upload =\fIARG\fR
Enables a limit on the bounding box (bbox) size for changeset uploads.
.IP
The maximum permitted size is determined by PostgreSQL function api_size_limit
for a given OSM user id.
.TP
.BR \-\-ratelimit-upload =\fIARG\fR
Enables rate limiting for changeset uploads.
.IP
The maximum permitted number of changes to be uploaded in the current changeset
is determined by PostgreSQL function api_rate_limit for a given OSM user id.
.TP
.BR \-\-max-payload =\fIARG\fR
Defines the maximum allowed size (in bytes) for HTTP payloads after decompression,
used for upload handling. Default setting is 50000000.
.TP
.BR \-\-map-nodes =\fIARG\fR
Specifies the maximum number of nodes allowed for the /map endpoint. Default is 50000.
.TP
.BR \-\-map-area =\fIARG\fR
Defines the maximum allowed area size for the /map endpoint.
.TP
.BR \-\-changeset-timeout-open =\fIARG\fR
Specifies the maximum open time for a changeset before it is automatically
being closed. Default setting is 24 hours.
.TP
.BR \-\-changeset-timeout-idle =\fIARG\fR
Defines the time that a changeset will remain open after the last edit
was made. If no edits are made within this time, the changeset will automatically
close.
.SS EXPERT SETTINGS
Parameters in this section should not be changed in a production environment without
adjusting corresponding settings on Rails as well. Due to the high likelihood
of causing all sorts of issues for data consumers, it's best not to touch them.
.TP
.BR \-\-max-changeset-elements =\fIARG\fR
Specifies the maximum number of changes (created, modified or deleted elements)
allowed in a single changeset. Default setting is 10000 changes.
.TP
.BR \-\-max-way-nodes =\fIARG\fR
Defines the maximum number of nodes allowed within a way. Default is 2000 nodes.
.TP
.BR \-\-scale =\fIARG\fR
Specifies the conversion factor for converting latitude and longitude in double format
to an internal integer format as defined by APIDB.
.IP
\fBChanging the scale parameter in production results in serious data inconsistencies!\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-max-relation-members =\fIARG\fR
Defines the maximum number of members allowed per relation. Default is 32000 members.
.TP
.BR \-\-max-element-tags =\fIARG\fR
Specifies the maximum number of tags allowed per element (node/way/relation).
By default, the number is unlimited.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.B 1
Program error, see console output or logfile for details.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
To convert a command line option to an environment variable prepend
\fBCGIMAP_\fR to the option, replace hyphen characters by an underscore,
and capitalize it.
.TP
For example, the option \fB\-\-moderator-ratelimit\fR becomes environment variable \fBCGIMAP_MODERATOR_RATELIMIT\fR
